aboutme.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About me
subtitle: In a few too many paragraphs
bigimg:
  - "/img/big-imgs/Keyboard.jpg" : "Somerset West, South Africa (2015)"
  - "/img/big-imgs/Jon_Mic.jpg" : "Claremont, Cape Town, South Africa (2015)"
---

Hi, I'm Jon. 

I’m a data analyst, R enthusiast, hobbyist musician, hopeful runner and 
lifelong learner. I work as part of a product team at 
[Derivco](http://derivco.com/), where I am engaged in a mixture of product 
design and analysis. I live in the beautiful city of Cape Town and I am proudly 
South African.

Please feel free to connect with me! My email address is included in the footer 
along with social media and other links.

For a longer bio, keep on reading below!

## Bio

I grew up in the heart of Kwa-Zulu Natal, South Africa, in a small 
city called Pietermaritzburg - aka 'the sleepy hollow'. Located about 90km away 
from the heart of Durban, PMB is probably best known for being the (joint) home 
of the world's largest and oldest ultramarathon - the Comrades Marathon - which 
is run between these two cities.

![My dad and I after Cape Town 12 (2016)](/img/small-imgs/Jon_and_Rob.jpg "My dad and I after Cape Town 12 (2016)"){:style="float: right;margin-right: 7px;margin-top: 7px;"}

Running is probably the simplest sport there is, but certainly not the easiest, 
and a race of this distance presents a substantial challenge - both physically 
and mentally. I grew up watching the race on tv, out alongside the road and 
sometimes even looking over the wall from the garden (when the race went past 
our house). To this day, I remain in awe of the thousands of people who complete 
this journey each year. One of those people is my father, who has 13 Comrades 
medals to his name. I remember him once saying of the race, "you will learn 
things about yourself you wouldn't discover another way". I think I'd like to 
complete the Comrades Marathon one day.

But don't let that give you the wrong impression - most of the stuff that I'm 
drawn to generally falls much more towards the mental end of the physically vs 
mentally demanding spectrum...

I've always been something of an academic. I thrived in the structured learning 
environment that school, and later university provided me. Learning is something 
that I really enjoy and I hope to be someone who never stops learning, both 
intellectually and otherwise.

I left PMB in 2005 to study at the University of Cape Town - tackling three 
years of actuarial science before switching streams to graduate with a BSc in 
Mathematical Statistics. During my honours the following year I discovered 
the world of Operations Research and Decision Science in particular which really 
piqued my interest. So after completing my BSc Honours in Statistics, I 
ended up undertaking an MSc in Operations Research, sparked by stakeholders from 
the Stormers rugby franchise in the Western Cape. 

![Playing pool in Bruge](/img/small-imgs/Pool_in_Bruges.jpg "Playing pool in Bruges"){:style="float: left;margin-right: 7px;margin-top: 7px;"}

This resulted in a research project which combined aspects of sports science, 
decision theory, and a whole lot of modelling and simulation in 
[R](https://www.r-project.org/about.html). Although I was first introduced to R 
at the outset of my undergraduate years at UCT, it was here where I began to 
develop my enthusiasm for R as a programming language.

During the latter part of my MSc, in 2011, I started working in the software 
industry as a data analyst for RightShift - a tech startup developing online 
games. The company experienced rapid growth in it's player base, which gave me 
good exposure to some of the challenges of managing and manipulating large 
amounts of data. Our core tooling included MySQL, SQL Server, and much of the 
Microsoft Business Intelligence stack - SSAS, SSIS and SSRS - along with a good
deal of Excel. Over and above that I also did a few projects which leveraged R 
to embed dynamic reports and visualizations on the company wiki, or for some 
[Shiny apps](http://shiny.rstudio.com/).

I completed my MSc in 2013, and have since produced two publications 
[(see here)](http://jonmcalder.github.io/cv/) with the help of my supervisor 
[Dr Ian Durbach](http://www.stats.uct.ac.za/stats/people/academic/durbach). 
RightShift was recently acquired by Derivco, which has seen me transition into 
more of a product design role, but with a particular focus on modeling all math 
related aspects of game design, and guiding the data process to faciliate future 
product analysis on an ongoing basis.

![The Ryan Calder Band](/img/small-imgs/RCB.jpg "The Ryan Calder Band")

In my spare time, I enjoy running, a myriad of different forms of moving images 
(sport, e-sport, movies, tv series etc), listening to music, and (when we can 
find time) making music with my brother and other friends (for more info 
see [ryancalder.co.za](www.ryancalder.co.za)). I am also a keen sound engineer 
with some experience mixing in live environments, though I'd also like to 
develop some more knowledge and expertise on the production side of things. 
Along with all of this I am also trying to get more involved in 
[R and other open-source development](http://github.com/jonmcalder), and hope to 
continue growing my technical skillset in pursuit of becoming a more rounded 
data scientist.

Commit message:

Include Contact page with form, update About page (with link to Contact page), remove email link from footer, update nav.

aboutme.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
subtitle: In a few too many paragraphs
bigimg:
  - "/img/big-imgs/Keyboard.jpg" : "Somerset West, South Africa (2015)"
  - "/img/big-imgs/Jon_Mic.jpg" : "Claremont, Cape Town, South Africa (2015)"
---

Hi, I'm Jon. 

I’m a data analyst, R enthusiast, hobbyist musician, hopeful runner and 
lifelong learner. I work as part of a product team at 
[Derivco](http://derivco.com/), where I am engaged in a mixture of product 
design, game maths and analysis. I live in the beautiful city of Cape Town and 
I am proudly South African.

Please feel free to connect with me! Either send me a direct message using the 
form available on the [Contact](http://jonmcalder.github.io/contact/) page, or 
have a look at the footer for my social media, Github and other links.

For a more lengthy bio, keep on reading below!

## Bio

I grew up in the heart of Kwa-Zulu Natal, South Africa, in a small 
city called Pietermaritzburg - aka 'the sleepy hollow'. Located about 90km away 
from the heart of Durban, PMB is probably best known for being the (joint) home 
of the world's largest and oldest ultramarathon - the Comrades Marathon - which 
is run between these two cities.

![My dad and I after Cape Town 12 (2016)](/img/small-imgs/Jon_and_Rob.jpg "My dad and I after Cape Town 12 (2016)"){:style="float: right;margin-right: 7px;margin-top: 7px;"}

Running is probably the simplest sport there is, but certainly not the easiest, 
and a race of this distance presents a substantial challenge - both physically 
and mentally. I grew up watching the race on tv, out alongside the road and 
sometimes even looking over the wall from the garden (when the race went past 
our house). To this day, I remain in awe of the thousands of people who complete 
this journey each year. One of those people is my father, who has 13 Comrades 
medals to his name. I remember him once saying of the race, "you will learn 
things about yourself you wouldn't discover another way". I think I'd like to 
complete the Comrades Marathon one day.

But don't let that give you the wrong impression - most of the stuff that I'm 
drawn to generally falls much more towards the mental end of the physically vs 
mentally demanding spectrum...

I've always been something of an academic. I thrived in the structured learning 
environment that school, and later university provided me. Learning is something 
that I really enjoy and I hope to be someone who never stops learning, both 
intellectually and otherwise.

I left PMB in 2005 to study at the University of Cape Town - tackling three 
years of actuarial science before switching streams to graduate with a BSc in 
Mathematical Statistics. During my honours the following year I discovered 
the world of Operations Research and Decision Science in particular which really 
piqued my interest. So after completing my BSc Honours in Statistics, I 
ended up undertaking an MSc in Operations Research, sparked by stakeholders from 
the Stormers rugby franchise in the Western Cape. 

![Playing pool in Bruge](/img/small-imgs/Pool_in_Bruges.jpg "Playing pool in Bruges"){:style="float: left;margin-right: 7px;margin-top: 7px;"}

This resulted in a research project which combined aspects of sports science, 
decision theory, and a whole lot of modelling and simulation in 
[R](https://www.r-project.org/about.html). Although I was first introduced to R 
at the outset of my undergraduate years at UCT, it was here where I began to 
develop my enthusiasm for R as a programming language.

During the latter part of my MSc, in 2011, I started working in the software 
industry as a data analyst for RightShift - a tech startup developing online 
games. The company experienced rapid growth in it's player base, which gave me 
good exposure to some of the challenges of managing and manipulating large 
amounts of data. Our core tooling included MySQL, SQL Server, and much of the 
Microsoft Business Intelligence stack - SSAS, SSIS and SSRS - along with a good
deal of Excel. Over and above that I also did a few projects which leveraged R 
to embed dynamic reports and visualizations on the company wiki, or for some 
[Shiny apps](http://shiny.rstudio.com/).

I completed my MSc in 2013, and have since produced two publications 
[(see here)](http://jonmcalder.github.io/cv/) with the help of my supervisor 
[Dr Ian Durbach](http://www.stats.uct.ac.za/stats/people/academic/durbach). 
RightShift was recently acquired by Derivco, which has seen me transition into 
more of a product design role, but with a particular focus on modeling all math 
related aspects of game design, and guiding the data process to faciliate future 
product analysis on an ongoing basis.

![The Ryan Calder Band](/img/small-imgs/RCB.jpg "The Ryan Calder Band")

In my spare time, I enjoy running, a myriad of different forms of moving images 
(sport, e-sport, movies, tv series etc), listening to music, and (when we can 
find time) making music with my brother and other friends (for more info 
see [ryancalder.co.za](www.ryancalder.co.za)). I am also a keen sound engineer 
with some experience mixing in live environments, though I'd also like to 
develop some more knowledge and expertise on the production side of things. 
Along with all of this I am also trying to get more involved in 
[R and other open-source development](http://github.com/jonmcalder), and hope to 
continue growing my technical skillset in pursuit of becoming a more rounded 
data scientist.
